Razors making some pretty bold claims
about their black widow ultimate 2014
when you consider that on the surface it
appears to be entirely unchanged from
their last generation flagship is there
really innovation left in mechanical
keyboards I guess we'll find out with
its factory tuning and data center DNA
and Intel 730 series SSD is an amazing
choice for gamers and performance
enthusiasts first up is the packaging
which razors reviewers guide informs me
is the way to tell the new Black Widow
ultimate from the old one and that it's
great because of the cleaner lines and
new artwork but none of that really
matters to me because razor missed one
small nearly insignificant detail
it doesn't say 2014 edition anywhere on
it I sure wish whatever product naming
school razor and Apple's iPad team went
to would go away razor I've told you
guys this already but come on I don't
care if you ran out of snake spiders and
mythical creatures different products
need to have different names or at least
numbers that clearly indicate the
revision or generation of the product to
your customers anyway with that out of
the way let's get into the important
differences razor has done and under the
hood update that turns the Black Widow
ultimate into a completely different
beast
gone are the Cherry MX blue and brown
switches we're used to finding on their
clicky and stealth versions and they've
been replaced by what Razer is calling
Razer mechanical switches in green and
orange variants respectively so your
first reaction to this is probably what
the devil is a Razer mechanical switch
and honestly I said the same thing the
answer is both simple and complicated
the simple version for Razer is that
they recognize that the key switch
designs on the market were optimized for
a great typing experience and while they
happened to be superior for gaming to
membrane key switches especially if you
pre sorted them or bin them from the
factory like razors been doing gaming
isn't what they were designed for that
is why they set out to create the first
which is made from the ground up for
gaming the complicated version is that
in addition to what I just said
Cherry MX switches are expensive and
constantly in short supply and cherries
patent on their MX keys which is very
recently expired
so now elements of that design can be
used by other companies without any
legal ramifications and RAZR can move
from having their key switches made at
Cherry corporations factories in Germany
to less expensive manufacturers in China
such as kale or even build their own
facility if they wanted to now to be
clear I'm not saying that razors new key
switches are a Chinese cherry clone
because while the design bears many
similarities to Cherry MX it is
different and the changes are positive
ones
first up the actuation point the exact
position where the downward keystroke is
registered by the computer is Specht
point three millimeters higher this has
the obvious effect of making your key
presses register sooner when you press
down and it also moves the actuation
point itself three millimeters closer to
the reset point or the position when you
let go where the key is ready to be
activated again both of these things are
designed to improve the keyboards
responsiveness which is definitely good
another effect of this is applicable to
razors clicky green key switch not to be
confused with Cherry MX greens totally
different and that is that it moves the
actuation point closer to where the
tactile bump is felt by the user meaning
it's easier to feel when you've
successfully pressed the key without
needing to bottom it out or press the
key all the way down to be sure this has
perhaps less relevance for typists but
for gamers it makes double tapping or
any other quick repetitive actions
easier to do by feel next up their
design calls for more gold on the
contacts which razer determined allows
an increase in the rated durability on
each key from 50 million keystrokes to
60 million keystrokes and finally they
are improving quality by employing their
own QA staff on the factory floor to
achieve a
eight four millimeter variants in
pre-travel distance versus Cherry's
point six millimeter variants this
should improve the consistency and
feeling from one keyboard to another and
even across all the keys on a single
keyboard not being a leet hacks or gamer
like the eSports players who Razer has
had testing the keyboard since last year
I didn't notice the raised actuation
point much but I also really didn't find
anything to complain about the green
Razer key switch keyboard here
definitely felt different from my ducky
shine 3 with cherry MX blues but it
didn't feel much different and in fact
if I didn't know I was using different
switches I would have guessed it was
just batch to batch variants between
blues rather than a completely different
manufacturer but I really like Cherry MX
blues so if they feel like blues to us
regular folks but they have added
benefits for more demanding users then
that's great
now Cherry's pitch for their switches is
unparalleled quality due to German
manufacturing but if Razer solution to
combat notoriously inconsistent Chinese
build quality is to submit their own
specifications and put their own staff
on the floor for quality control then I
think ultimately the question gamers
need to ask themselves is this are you
buying a keyboard or a key switch do you
really need to know where the bread came
from you know at Subway
if the sandwich artisan delivers a
delicious and nutritious sandwich to you
do you need to know where Razer is
sourcing each individual component of
their keyboard or do you trust Razer to
deliver you an exceptional product as
long as they're overseeing the
manufacturing leave your comments under
the video and let me know your thoughts
speaking of exceptional products I spent
so much time talking about the key
switches that I haven't actually given
too much information about the keyboard
itself it's got fully programmable keys
and five additional gaming keys with
support for on-the-fly macro recording
individual / key backlighting with 13
levels of brightness all the way from
off to a phenomenally vibrant beautiful
green it's got media keys with the
function key to control them on the
right so it takes up less prize
Gaming real estate on the left side of
the keyboard ten key rollover so you're
not going to have to worry about
ghosting and both USB and audio
pass-through ports over here on the
right-hand side the build quality of the
keyboard is solid as we've come to
expect and the matte black finish is
fantastic a huge improvement over some
of their previous designs that used
glossy plastic if I had to point out
something I don't like about the design
all I really came up with is that
there's no wrist rest included but that
is becoming a more common thing in
general and I guess I don't like this at
cymbal very much
seriously razor but like what is that
but anyway all things considered those
are really minor complaints and if this
product is an indication of the kind of
more affordable mechanical keyboards
that will be available for gamers with
these switches which are not exclusive
to Razer in any way they're saying well
yeah sure whoever can use them then I
think the future is very exciting
speaking of exciting audio books at
audible.com/anna Nover - audible.com
slash Linus - browse their massive
selection of over a hundred and fifty
thousand titles if you're looking for
excitement I saw a familiar author pop
up on the bestseller list in the last
couple of weeks Dick Francis from whom
I've read to the hilt and longshot
specializes in fast-paced and exciting
crime novels that always related somehow
to the world of horse racing if that
sounds intriguing then you can sign up
for audibles monthly audiobook service
and get the first one for free if horse
racing crime doesn't sound intriguing to
you then you can go back to Nancy Drew
mr. intriguing the word that gets
overused in Nancy Drew - you know much
to my dismay as a child because I'd
sincerely thought that it was pronounced
in trig you'd not intrigued and it's in
like every single Nancy Drew book anyway
which incidentally you can also find
Nancy Drew books on audible.com whatever
you end up listening to just make sure
you use my URL audible.com slash Linus
guys like and share this video if you
liked it dislike it if you disliked it
and leave a comment on the Linus tected
forum linked in the video description if
you want to discuss this product which
is actually a very interesting one
where you have any constructive
criticism for me in my team also linked
in the video description is our support
link with options like buying t-shirts
giving us a monthly contribution to keep
making videos or giving us a kickback
whenever you buy random junk on Amazon
simply by using our link check it out if
you enjoy our videos it helps us a whole
bunch and as always guys thanks for
watching and don't forget to subscribe